[Excel] (Range) Reorganize Range articles to improve discoverability and usability (#2582)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/excel/excel-add-ins-ranges-group.md

---
title: Group ranges using the Excel JavaScript API
description: 'Learn how to group rows or columns of a range together to create an outline using the Excel JavaScript API.' 
ms.date: 04/02/2021 
localization_priority: Normal
---

> # Group range data for an outline using the Excel JavaScript API

Reviewer: Is it grouping ranges or the data?
```suggestion
# Group ranges for an outline using the Excel JavaScript API
```

> This article provides a code sample that shows how to group range data for an outline using the Excel JavaScript API. For the complete list of properties and methods that the `Range` object supports, see the [Excel.Range class](/javascript/api/excel/excel.range).

Reviewer: Same question as above.
```suggestion
This article provides a code sample that shows how to group ranges for an outline using the Excel JavaScript API. For the complete list of properties and methods that the `Range` object supports, see the [Excel.Range class](/javascript/api/excel/excel.range).
```

```js
Excel.run(function (context) {
    var sheet = context.workbook.worksheets.getItem("Sample");

    // Group the larger, main level. Note that the outline controls
    // will be on row 10, meaning 4-9 will collapse and expand.
    sheet.getRange("4:9").group(Excel.GroupOption.byRows);

    // Group the smaller, sublevels. Note that the outline controls
    // will be on rows 6 and 9, meaning 4-5 and 7-8 will collapse and expand.
    sheet.getRange("4:5").group(Excel.GroupOption.byRows);
    sheet.getRange("7:8").group(Excel.GroupOption.byRows);

    // Group the larger, main level. Note that the outline controls
    // will be on column R, meaning C-Q will collapse and expand.
    sheet.getRange("C:Q").group(Excel.GroupOption.byColumns);

    // Group the smaller, sublevels. Note that the outline controls
    // will be on columns G, L, and R, meaning C-F, H-K, and M-P will collapse and expand.
    sheet.getRange("C:F").group(Excel.GroupOption.byColumns);
    sheet.getRange("H:K").group(Excel.GroupOption.byColumns);
    sheet.getRange("M:P").group(Excel.GroupOption.byColumns);
    return context.sync();
}).catch(errorHandlerFunction);

> 

Reviewer: Nit: extra blank line

```

![A range with a two-level, two-dimension outline](../images/excel-outline.png)

> To ungroup a row or column group, use the [Range.ungroup](/javascript/api/excel/excel.range#ungroup-groupoption-) method. This removes the outermost level from the outline. If multiple groups of the same row or column type are at the same level within the specified range, all of those groups are ungrouped.

Reviewer: Now that this is its own article, let's add a header for ungrouping.
